Business Team	Students will demonstrate a basic knowledge and perspective of business and economics.	Annette	Maddox	amaddox
Communication Team	Students will demonstrate the ability to write and speak logically, clearly, precisely, and the ability, through accurate reading and listening, to acquire, organize, present and document information and ideas.	Travice	Obas	tobas
English I Team	Students will be able to recognize and write sentences consistent with the patterns of standard written English and write effective short essays	Mauro	Bisiacchi	mbisiac
English II Team	Students will demonstrate the ability to write essays in standard written English; to revise, edit, and proofread for grammatical and mechanical errors; to construct arguments; and to research a topic using scholarly resources. Students will be able to demonstrate their knowledge of literary genres such as drama, short fiction, and poetry; students will be able to write well-developed essays, including formal research papers and cogent arguments. 	Jeff	Kozee	jkozee
English III Team	Students will demonstrate the ability to analyze and understand significant ideas from a variety of cultures, eras, and genres.	Leslie	Johnston	ljohnsto
Health Sciences I Team	Students will be adequately prepared to be successful on the NCLEX-RN exam and function in the role of a beginning RN.	Lynn	Herman	lherman
Health Sciences II Team	Students will be adequately prepared to be successful on the NCLEX-RN exam and function in the role of a beginning RN	Sue	West	swest
Health Sciences III Team	Students will be adequately prepared to be successful on the NCLEX-RN exam and function in the role of a beginning RN	Keridan	Kaisner	kkaisner
Health Sciences IV Team 	Assess, plan, implement and evaluate treatment in the promotion of oral and systemic health using an evidence based approach.	Donna	Miller	dmiller
Humanities Team 	Students will demonstrate the ability to analyze and understand significant ideas from a variety of cultures, eras and genres.	Kathryn 	Garcia	kgarcia
Information Literacy Team 	Students will be able to recognize when information is needed, and to locate, evaluate, effectively use, and understand ethical issues related to information in its various formats.	Rachel	Wall	rwall
Math I Team	Students will demonstrate the ability to apply mathematical thought and methods.	Tim	Floyd	tfloyd
Math II Team	Students will demonstrate the ability to apply mathematical thought and methods.	Ed	Hawkins	ehawkins
Math III Team	Students will demonstrate the ability to apply mathematical thought and methods.	Laura	Ralston	lralston
Math IV Team	Students will use appropriate models and quantitative methods to analyze data, explore relationships among variables, and find missing information.	Vincent	Manatsa	vmanatsa
Natural Science I Team	Students will demonstrate knowledge of the fundamental concepts of at least one scientific discipline, and an understanding of the interplay between theory and experimentation/observation undergirding those concepts.	Veronica	Morin	vmorin
Natural Science II Team	Students will demonstrate knowledge of the fundamental concepts of at least one scientific discipline, and an understanding of the interplay between theory and experimentation/observation undergirding those concepts.	Mark	Pergrem	mpergrem
Reading Team	To assist students in acquiring the skill necessary for effective reading of college textbooks and demonstrating this proficiency on a system-wide exit examination.	Simon	Grist	sgrist
Social Sciences I Team	Students will demonstrate an awareness of global and American historical, political and cultural issues.	Shannon	Bontrager	sbontrag
Social Sciences II Team	Students will demonstrate familiarity with the basic concepts of the American Governmental system.	Shea	Mize	smize
Social Sciences III Team	Students will demonstrate an understanding of global issues. Students will demonstrate knowledge of the scientific process in psychology. Students will demonstrate the knowledge of human systems, including: historical, cultural, and global perspectives and their interaction with the field of human services.	Josh	Stovall	jstovall
Social Sciences IV Team	To prepare human service professionals to serve individuals, families, groups, communities, and/or other supported human services organizational functions.	Susan	Claxton	sclaxton
Teacher Education Team	Students will demonstrate the knowledge and skills necessary to be a successful teacher.	Darrell	Sorrells	dsorrell
Wellness Team	Students will demonstrate knowledge of the fundamental concepts of a wellness lifestyle.	Scott	Flynn	sflynn
Advancement/Alumni Unit	It is the mission of the Department of College Advancement to affect a superior educational environment through philanthropic support of Georgia Highlands College and its educational curricula by securing resources to provide community awareness, community education and involvement, community service and personal contact for financial support. The mission of the Georgia Highlands College Alumni Association is to bridge the past with the future, engendering a sense of pride, loyalty and interest in the life of the college.	John	Southwood	jsouthwo
College Relations Unit	The Office of College Relations will increase awareness throughout the college’s expanded service area to boost enrollment, alumni interest/participation and improve community perception of the college.  Internally, the college relations department will inform its internal audiences, consisting of faculty, staff and students, of achievements, news and activities that keep the college family knowledgeable and positive about the state of the institution and its colleagues.	Dana	Davis	ddavis
Human Resources Unit	The Georgia Highlands College Office of Human Resources’ mission is to support and influence a culture of excellence, respect and inclusiveness by delivering valuable and innovative Human Resources services and consultation to the institution, which creates and sustains an environment where leaders, at all levels, are fully prepared to manage and lead, and where both Faculty and Staff thrive.	Ginni 	Siler	gsiler
Strategic Planning, Assessment and Accreditation Unit	In support of the mission of GHC, SPAA facilitates the ongoing development of academic and administrative excellence of the college through planning, research and assessment.	Laura	Musselwhite	lmusselw
Academic Success and eLearning Unit	The Academic Success and eLearning Division provides two kinds of support for learning.  First, the division offers the courses that are part of the state&#39;s formal Learning Support program. Second, the division is the home of GHC&#39;s First Year Experience program and is responsible for the content of FYE courses (FCST 1010 and FSCT1020).	Diane	Langston	dlangsto
Health Sciences Unit	The Health Sciences Division will provide an educational environment that fosters student success in skill development, retention and licensure passage.	Becca	Maddox	rmaddox
Humanities Unit	In support of the mission of Georgia Highlands College (GHC), the Division of Humanities will provide students with access to excellent educational opportunities via the disciplines of art, communication, music, foreign languages, journalism, drama, and English, which are an integral part of the University System of Georgia core curriculum and two-year associate degrees offered by the college. The division is committed to enhancing the intellectual and cultural development of our diverse student population, emphasizing an education based on the college’s student-learning outcomes, recruiting and supporting highly qualified faculty, and facilitating student success through advising and support.	Jon	Hershey	jhershey
Mathematics Unit	In support of the mission of Georgia Highlands College (GHC), the Division of Mathematics designs, schedules, and delivers high quality mathematics and computer science courses, which are an integral part of the University System of Georgia core curriculum and two-year associate degrees offered by the college. The division is committed to enhanced student achievement in mathematics and computer science, emphasizing an education based on the college’s student learning outcomes, recruiting and supporting highly qualified faculty, and providing excellent customer service to students through the division’s administrative functions.	Carla	Moldavan	cmoldava
Science and Physical Education Unit	In support of the mission of Georgia Highlands College (GHC), the Division of Science and Physical Education  designs, schedules, and delivers high quality science and physical education courses, which are an integral part of the University System of Georgia core curriculum and two-year associate degrees offered by the college. The division is committed to enhanced student achievement in science and physical education, emphasizing an education based on the college’s student-learning outcomes, recruiting and supporting highly qualified faculty, and providing excellent customer service to students through the division’s administrative functions.	Donna 	Daugherty	ddaugher
Social Sciences, Business and Education Unit	In support of the mission of Georgia Highlands College (GHC), the Division of Social Sciences and Business will provide students with access to excellent educational opportunities via the disciplines of Accounting, Business Administration, Criminal Justice, Economics, Education, Geography, History, Human Services, Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology, Religion, and Sociology, which are an integral part of the University System of Georgia core curriculum and two-year associate degrees offered by the college. The division is committed to developing students as citizens in a local, national, and global context, promoting and valuing diversity, and developing life skills.  We also seek to enhance the intellectual and cultural development of our diverse student population, emphasizing an education based on the college’s student-learning outcomes, recruiting and supporting highly qualified faculty, facilitating student success through advising and support, and providing excellent customer service to students through the division’s administrative functions.	Rob	Page	rpage
Advising Unit	In support of Georgia Highlands College Mission and Goals, academic advising is a joint venture for a student aided by a faculty member to explore and to determine educational options, which will ultimately lead to achievement of personal and professional goals, whether that is within the realm of the core curriculum, transfer programs, cooperative degree programs, or career programs.	Diane	Langston	dlangsto
Assessment Center Unit	The Assessment Center schedules and proctors tests for GHC.  The kinds of tests provided support the various academic goals of the college. 	Diane	Langston	dlangsto
Tutorial Center Unit	The purpose of the Georgia Highlands Tutorial Center is to help students improve their academic skills and succeed in their chosen college curriculum.  The staff of the Tutorial Center is dedicated to helping students acquire the skills to become independent learners and enhancing the education that is received by students in the classroom.  Tutors do not grade papers or in any way substitute for classroom instruction, and course instructors provide the standard for grading.	Diane	Langston	dlangsto
Library Unit	The Georgia Highlands College Library is committed to the College&#39;s mission of teaching, research, and service, and by providing access to resources in all formats as they develop in order to meet the curriculum and intellectual needs of the Georgia Highlands College community. The Georgia Highlands College Library, in conjunction with other institutions and University System of Georgia libraries, builds an organization that fosters cultural diversity and an environment conducive to learning and research. 	Elijah	Scott	escott
Campus Deans Unit	The mission of the Administrative Office of Campus Dean is to facilitate operations between the campuses of Georgia Highlands College and other participating institutions. The Administrative Office also works collaboratively to serve the needs of students, faculty, staff, and its community with emphasis on achieving successful learning outcomes, enhancing workforce preparedness, and building effective community and industry partnerships.  	Cathy	Ledbetter	cledbett
Admissions Unit	The Admissions Department enrolls qualified students. 	Sandie	Davis	sdavis
Financial Aid Unit	The Financial Aid Office will provide the highest quality of services when awarding financial aid accurately, efficiently and in a timely manner while in full compliance with all federal, state and college regulations. In pursuing our mission we strive to uphold the highest degree of professionalism, confidentiality, honesty, and integrity; embrace emerging technologies; and work collaboratively with all areas of the college, recognizing that only together can we achieve our common goal to enhance enrollment, retention, and academic success of our students. 	Megan	Simpson	msimpson
Registrar Unit	The Office of the Registrar, with a customer- centered focus, will use the most current technology available to provide student records, registration, and graduation services that assist students to meet educational goals.	Sandie	Davis	sdavis
Student Support Services  Unit	The mission of Student Support Services is to provide reasonable programs and services to enrolled students, including supportive counseling, career exploration, and disability support that allow students to meet the demands of college life, as independently as possible. 	Laura	Musselwhite	lmusselw
Student Life Unit	The Office of Student Life (OSL) seeks to develop the Georgia Highlands College student body through a series of co-curricular activities that promote experiential learning, wellness, an appreciation of the arts, leadership, and volunteerism. The unit encourages and provides student involvement opportunities to complement the academic programs of study and to enhance the overall college experience for all Georgia Highlands College students.	Laura	Musselwhite	lmusselw
Accounting Unit	The Department of Accounting reports to the Vice President for Finance and Administration and is responsible for the accurate and efficient management and delivery of non-academic services to students, faculty, staff, retirees, college vendors, and the general public. Our responsibilities include the areas of General Ledger, Accounts Receivable, Accounts Payable, and Payroll.	Jamie	Petty	jpetty
Budgets Unit	The Department of Budgets reports to the Vice President for Finance and Administration and is responsible for the management and preparation of budget analysis, reporting and forecasting.	Bonnie 	Chamberlain	bchamber
Auxiliary Services	The Department of Auxiliary Services reports to the Vice President for Finance and Administration and is responsible for the delivery of non-academic services to students, faculty, and staff such as Bookstore, Food Service, Charger Card, and Vending.	Rudy	Battistelli	rbattist
Campus Safety Unit	The Department of Campus Safety reports to the Vice President for Finance and Administration and is responsible for providing a safe and secure environment for employees, students and the general public in order to facilitate the learning process.	John	Upton	jupton
Physical Plant Unit	The Department of Physical Plant reports to the Vice President for Finance and Administration and is responsible for the management and delivery of non-academic services to students, faculty and staff. Our areas of responsibility include Engineering, Building Services, Custodial and Grounds. 	Phillip	Kimsey	pkimsey
Procurement Unit	The Department of Procurement reports to the Vice President for Finance and Administration and is responsible for the overall management of all college purchases, p-card administration, fleet management, and risk management. 	Cynthia 	Parker	cparker
Information Technology Unit	The Information Technology Department provides technological services that support the computing needs of the institutions academic and administrative functions.  Furthermore, the Information Technology Department enhances the teaching and learning process for students, faculty and staff by researching, developing, implementing, and facilitating diverse and effective delivery systems through the use of new technologies.	Jeff	Patty	jpatty